README.md, before:

# embit

A minimal bitcoin library for MicroPython and Python3 with a focus on embedded systems.

Should remain minimal to fit in a microcontroller. Also easy to audit.

Examples can be found in [`examples/`](./examples) folder.

Micropython-specific tutorial [here](https://github.com/diybitcoinhardware/f469-disco/tree/master/docs/tutorial).

# Requirements

## MicroPython

Requires a custom MicroPython build with extended [`hashlib`](https://github.com/diybitcoinhardware/f469-disco/tree/master/usermods/uhashlib) module and [`secp256k1`](https://github.com/diybitcoinhardware/secp256k1-embedded) bindings.

To install copy the content of `embit` folder to the board. To save some space you can remove files `embit/util/ctypes_secp256k1.py` and `embit/util/pyhashlib.py` - they are used only in Python3.

## Python 3

To install run `pip3 install embit`.

To install in development mode (editable) clone and run `pip3 install -e .` from the root folder.

PyPi installation includes prebuilt libraries for common platforms (win, macos, linux, raspi) - see [`src/embit/util/prebuilt/`](./src/embit/util/prebuilt/) folder. Library is built from [libsecp-zkp](https://github.com/ElementsProject/secp256k1-zkp) fork for Liquid support, but will work with pure [libsecp256k1](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/secp256k1) as well - just Liquid functionality doesn't work. If it fails to use the prebuilt or system library it will fallback to pure python implementation.

If you want to build the lib yourself, [clone it](https://github.com/ElementsProject/secp256k1-zkp) and configure it with the following flags:

```sh
./configure --enable-module-ecdh --enable-module-musig --enable-module-recovery --enable-module-generator --enable-module-rangeproof --enable-module-schnorrsig --enable-module-surjectionproof --enable-experimental
```

## Using non-English BIP39 wordlists
[BIP39](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0039/bip-0039-wordlists.md) defines wordlists for:
* English
* Japanese
* Korean
* Spanish
* Chinese (Simplified)
* Chinese (Traditional)
* French
* Italian
* Czech
* Portuguese

`embit` assumes English and does not include the other wordlists in order to keep this as slim as possible.

However, you can override this default by providing an alternate wordlist to any of the mnemonic-handling methods:
```
spanish_wordlist = [
    "ábaco",
    "abdomen",
    "abeja",
    "abierto",
    "abogado",
    "abono",
    "aborto",
    "abrazo",
    "abrir",
    "abuelo",
    ...
]

mnemonic_is_valid(mnemonic, wordlist=spanish_wordlist)
mnemonic_to_seed(mnemonic, wordlist=spanish_wordlist)
mnemonic_to_bytes(mnemonic, wordlist=spanish_wordlist)
mnemonic_from_bytes(bytes_data, wordlist=spanish_wordlist)
```

Commit message:

add specific secp-zkp commit that embit binds to

README.md, after:

# embit

A minimal bitcoin library for MicroPython and Python3 with a focus on embedded systems.

Should remain minimal to fit in a microcontroller. Also easy to audit.

Examples can be found in [`examples/`](./examples) folder.

Micropython-specific tutorial [here](https://github.com/diybitcoinhardware/f469-disco/tree/master/docs/tutorial).

# Requirements

## MicroPython

Requires a custom MicroPython build with extended [`hashlib`](https://github.com/diybitcoinhardware/f469-disco/tree/master/usermods/uhashlib) module and [`secp256k1`](https://github.com/diybitcoinhardware/secp256k1-embedded) bindings.

To install copy the content of `embit` folder to the board. To save some space you can remove files `embit/util/ctypes_secp256k1.py` and `embit/util/pyhashlib.py` - they are used only in Python3.

## Python 3

To install run `pip3 install embit`.

To install in development mode (editable) clone and run `pip3 install -e .` from the root folder.

PyPi installation includes prebuilt libraries for common platforms (win, macos, linux, raspi) - see [`src/embit/util/prebuilt/`](./src/embit/util/prebuilt/) folder. Library is built from [libsecp-zkp](https://github.com/ElementsProject/secp256k1-zkp) fork for Liquid support, but will work with pure [libsecp256k1](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/secp256k1) as well - just Liquid functionality doesn't work. If it fails to use the prebuilt or system library it will fallback to pure python implementation.

If you want to build the lib yourself, [clone it](https://github.com/ElementsProject/secp256k1-zkp) and build:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/ElementsProject/secp256k1-zkp.git
cd secp256k1-zkp
git checkout f3708a1ecb445b1b05a0f8fcd1da6a88f83d89c4
./autogen.sh
./configure --enable-module-ecdh --enable-module-musig --enable-module-recovery --enable-module-generator --enable-module-rangeproof --enable-module-schnorrsig --enable-module-surjectionproof --enable-experimental
make
sudo make install
```

## Using non-English BIP39 wordlists
[BIP39](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0039/bip-0039-wordlists.md) defines wordlists for:
* English
* Japanese
* Korean
* Spanish
* Chinese (Simplified)
* Chinese (Traditional)
* French
* Italian
* Czech
* Portuguese

`embit` assumes English and does not include the other wordlists in order to keep this as slim as possible.

However, you can override this default by providing an alternate wordlist to any of the mnemonic-handling methods:
```
spanish_wordlist = [
    "ábaco",
    "abdomen",
    "abeja",
    "abierto",
    "abogado",
    "abono",
    "aborto",
    "abrazo",
    "abrir",
    "abuelo",
    ...
]

mnemonic_is_valid(mnemonic, wordlist=spanish_wordlist)
mnemonic_to_seed(mnemonic, wordlist=spanish_wordlist)
mnemonic_to_bytes(mnemonic, wordlist=spanish_wordlist)
mnemonic_from_bytes(bytes_data, wordlist=spanish_wordlist)
```
